FOOD DONATION :Food or goods that are given to help a person or organization, or the act of giving them:

FOOD SCARCITY AS BIGGEST  REASON
Reasons of scarcity:1. POVERTY
Poverty and hunger exist in a vicious cycle. Families living in poverty usually can’t afford nutritious food, leading to undernourishment. In turn, undernourishment makes it difficult for people to earn more money so that they can afford healthy food. Families living in poverty might also sell off their livestock or tools to supplement their income. This buys short-term relief, but perpetuates a longer-term pattern of hunger and poverty that is often passed down from parents to children. 

The Democratic Republic of Congo, recognized year over year as one of the world’s poorest countries, has a population of 77 million, the majority of whom live below $1.25/day. As of 2017, 7.9 million DRC citizens faced acute hunger. 

Poverty often goes hand-in-hand with many of the other causes of hunger on this list — read on for more, or see how you can help now.

2. FOOD SHORTAGES
Across Africa, including regions like the Sahel and the Horn of Africa, farming families experience periods before harvests known as “hungry seasons.” These are the times of year when food supplies from the previous harvest are exhausted, but the chance to replenish supplies is still some time off. This leaves families forced to skip one (or more) meals each day in the period before the next harvest — which could be months away.

More

THE WORLD'S 10 HUNGRIEST COUNTRIES
Despite global hunger levels falling, one in nine people worldwide still face hunger. Here are the ten hungriest countries according to the 2018 Global Hunger Index.

LEARN MORE
3. WAR & CONFLICT
War and conflict are also among the leading contributors to world hunger. In South Sudan, civil war has led to mass displacement and abandoned fields. The result is crop failure which, combined with a soaring inflation rate that makes imported food unaffordable, has left 6 million people food-insecure. Likewise, Yemen’s ongoing conflict has led to over half the country (approximately 17 million people) in need of urgent action in the absence of ongoing humanitarian food assistance. 

4. CLIMATE CHANGE
Countries like Zambia enjoy relative peace and political stability. However, they are also plagued by hunger due to climate extremes. Too much, or too little, rainfall can destroy harvests or reduce the amount of animal pasture available. These fluctuations are made worse by the El Niño weather system, and are likely to increase due to changes in climate. Extreme climate patterns also tend to affect the poorest regions of the world the most. The World Bank estimates that climate change has the power to push more than 100 million people into poverty over the next decade.

» Help rush emergency assistance where it’s needed most

 

Crops grow on a farm in Niger. 
Crops grow on a farm in Niger. Three years ago, Concern provided some of the country’s poorest communities with seeds that are better able to cope with Niger’s changing climate, as well as advice on better farming techniques. Photo: Chris de Bode/Panos Pictures

5. POOR NUTRITION
Hunger isn’t simply a lack of access to food; it’s a lack of access to the right nutrients. In order to thrive, humans need a range of foods providing a variety of essential health benefits. Poor families often rely on just one or two staple foods (like corn or wheat), which means they’re not getting enough critical macronutrients and vitamins, and may still suffer the effects of hunger. 

A lack of nutrition is especially important for pregnant and breastfeeding women and young children: Nutrition support during pregnancy and up to the age of five can help protect children for their entire lives. Proper nutrition reduces the likelihood of disease, poor health, and cognitive impairment. Through the LANN project, communities in countries like Sierra Leone are learning how to identify nutrient-rich wild foods that are safe to eat in order to make the most of their available resources. This is one of the many ways we look for sustainable solutions for malnourished communities.

You can help

FEED A CHILD TODAY
Conflict, climate disaster, chronic poverty. The need now is more urgent than ever.

DONATE NOW
6. POOR PUBLIC POLICY
Systemic problems, like poor infrastructure or low investment in agriculture, often prevent food and water from reaching the world populations that need them the most. 

7. ECONOMY
Much like the poverty-hunger cycle, a country’s economic resilience has a direct effect on its nutritional resilience. For example, Liberia’s overall economic troubles deepened after the Ebola outbreak in 2014. Five years later, 50% live below the poverty line. Working towards economic stability overall will have a ripple effect on other causes of world hunger cited on this list. 

Members of the community committee in Bongay village, Sierra Leone, proudly display the range of foods they're now growing and foraging for.
Members of the community committee in Bongay village, Sierra Leone, proudly display the range of foods they’re now growing and foraging for, as part of the Natural Resources Management and Nutrition (LANN) project in their village. Photo: Kieran McConville

8. FOOD WASTE
According to the World Food Programme, 1/3 of all food produced — over 1.3 billion tons of it — is never consumed. What’s more, producing this wasted food also uses other natural resources that, when threatened, have a ripple effect in the countries that are already hit hardest by hunger, poverty, and climate change. Producing this wasted food requires an amount of water equal to the annual flow of Russia’s Volga River — and adds 3.3 billion tons of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere.

9. GENDER INEQUALITY
In its Sustainable Development Goal 2, the UN reveals: “If women farmers had the same access to resources as men, the number of hungry in the world could be reduced by up to 150 million.” Female farmers are responsible for growing, harvesting, preparing, and selling the majority of food in poor countries. Women are on the frontlines of the fight against hunger, yet they are frequently underrepresented at the forums where important decisions on policy and resources are made.



LEARN MORE
10. FORCED MIGRATION
Beyond war and conflict, a number of factors contribute to the causes of forced migration. This includes hunger, but forced migration can also be a cause of hunger. Many refugees living abroad live in neighboring countries with limited resources to begin with. In Lebanon, for example, nearly a third of the population are refugees, placing a huge strain on resources. Each year, Concern partners with Welthungerhilfe to produce the Global Hunger Index; released last October, the 2018 edition underlines the connection between hunger and forced migration, a problem which can only be resolved by a political solution.


CONSUMOTION:    accepted


We can accept
Short coded product
Excess product
Product not meeting retailer specification
Discontinued product
Product requiring relabelling
Under or over weight product
Private label product
New product lines or promotions which didn’t take off
Product withdrawals if they’re still fit for use


not accepted:
We won’t accept
Regulated products such as alcohol, tobacco or drugs of dependence
Product past its use by date
Product more than 6 months past its best before date
Product where the packaging seal has been broken
Mouldy or rotting product
Product where the cold chain has not been maintained
Product subject to a safety recall
Unlabelled product provided without ingredient details

packed stuff like juices, biscuits,chips etc.
Best If Used By/Before. This guarantees when a product is of the best quality or flavor. For instance, a jar of salsa may not taste as fresh or crackers may be soft instead of crisp after this date. It's not about safety.
Sell By. This is the date set by manufacturers to tell retailers when to remove a product from shelves. The goal is to ensure that consumers have products at their best quality, which can be several days to several weeks, depending on the item. For instance, milk, assuming proper refrigeration, should last five to seven days past its sell-by date before turning sour.

Use By. This is the last date that guarantees the best quality of a product. This is also not a safety date except when used on infant formula.
cooked stuff like  roti,rice,vegan;
Nonperishable items like grains and dried and canned goods can still be used well past their label dates, but with meat, dairy, and eggs, it's a different story. Although there are still no federally regulated expiration dates on those items, they obviously have shorter shelf lives. According to Sana Mujahid, Ph.D., manager of food-safety research at Consumer Reports, the best way to know whether a perishable food has spoiled is simply to “trust your taste buds and sense of smell.”

Foods past their prime often develop mold, bacteria, and yeast, causing them to give warning signs to your senses. Spoiled food will usually look different in texture and color, smell unpleasant, and taste bad before it becomes unsafe to eat.

RAW: like fruits: Apple,Banana etc.
the factors which tell food is consumable are:
smell
colour
not fungi
etc.



HOW CAN you HELP?
